RSA: Named after Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman the RSA encryption is a type of asymmetric encryption which has its whole focus on the modular exponentiation, therefore utilizing the big integer factorization as the security measure. 
The encryption algorithm consists on having two big prime numbers in a previously set modular group as private and public keys. These have to follow a specific array of rules for being able to be used as such, which can then be treated as the power of the clear text, in order to achieve the cipher text. Both encryption and decryption work similarly, but it has to be considered that the former uses the public, whereas the latter the private key.

ElGamal: Based on the problem of the discrete logarithm, ElGamal is an asymmetric encryption technique that takes root on the Diffie – Helmann key exchange algorithm. The procedure uses the aforementioned algorithm in order to generate both a private and public key, with help of a modular group generator. This causes the keys to be connected via the generator and allowing them to be used as the generators power for the creation of an integer, that is utilized as the factor to be multiplied with the text.

Affine: Affine cipher is a type of symmetric encryption that uses a set of two numbers inside of a modular group in order to achieve its encryption. The numbers k and t are the additive and multiplicative keys respectively, and consists of the following schema: the text is multiplied by t, being added with k thereafter, generating a ciphertext. On the other hand, the decryption works using the negative number -k and the multiplicative inverse 1/t. As an important note t has to be prime inside its modular group.

Vigenere: This kind of symmetric encryption utilizes a whole word as a its key. Each of the letters of the word represents a number in the chosen alphabet, and the word length represents how often the letters are repeated. Each letter is then treated as a separate additive key to the respective letter in the clear text. The decryption uses the additive inverse of each of the keys letters as key.

Hill: Hill cipher employs matrixes as its desired encryption method. The key has to be quadratic, inversible matrix, who’s determinant is prime in the previously set modular group while the text has to be separated in vectors with the same length as the matrix. The whole encryption process is a matrix times vector multiplication where the cipher text is then created, whereas the decryption uses the same method with the inverse key matrix.

RC4: The Rivest Cipher 4 (RC4) is a symmetric encryption method that is based on two core principles: A seed creation and a pseudo – random number generator: The idea is to generate a seed of numbers between 0 and 256, which is scrambled in accordance to the key, that can either be random, or defined by the user; having this seed, a pseudo –  random number generator returns one of the numbers in the seed, which can be then compared with the text, being helped by the exclusive disjunction (XOR).

DES: Commonly known as DES, the Data Encryption Standard is a symmetric encryption algorithm that takes in 64 bits of data, and outputs the same amount of cipher text. The 64 bits are divided in two sides, each containing 32 bits. These are compared with several XOR operators, while being processed by a special function and changing sides. The aforementioned process is repeated sixteen times with also this same number of keys, whom are all based in the initial key. The decryption describes the same process but with the opposite order of the keys. 

